# Conventional Commits 

## Requirement

Currently, ProGen makes commits using the "message" passed.  

For Example: 

```
> ProGen.Script.action "Message", "action", [arguments] 
```

Gives a commit message "Message".  Great.

In some repos, we'd like the commit message to adhere to "Conventional Commit" (CC) standards.

See https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/ for a detailed spec.

With CC, the commit message should be structured as follows: 

```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

Where the <type> can be [fix, feat, build, chore, ci, docs, style, refactor, perf, test, ...]

I'd like to ProGen to handle this requirement.

## Design Overview 

The solution will involve the following changes and additions to the codebase:

- configuration file: a repo can optionally have a ProGen configuration file
  ".progen.<filetype>".  The filetype can be either YAML or TOML.  For now, the
  config file will accept only one option: `use_conventional_commits:
  <true/false>` (default false).
- module attribute for ProGen.Action: each Action module can optionally define
  a module attribute `@commit_type <string>`.  The string must adere to CC
  standards, which may include an `[optional scope]` For example: `@commit_type
  "doc"` or `@commit_type "feat[web framework]"`
- the default `@commit_type` module attribute is `chore[action]`. 
- if `use_conventional_commits` is true, then ProGen will use the
  `@commit_type` to formulate a commit message that adheres to the CC standard.
- in addition to `ProGen.Script.action`, commit messages are also generated by
  `ProGen.Script.command`.  For commands, the commit type will be
  `chore[command]`

